Welcome back to the Book of Proverbs and our study of the Book of Proverbs.
We're in chapter 7 and in our last class, we looked at verses 19 through 20.
And let me just read that.
For my husband is not at home.
He has gone on a long journey.
He has taken a bag of money with him.
at the full moon, he will come home.
Now, so what we're learning here is that when the world is seeking to tempt you to sin, that one of their arguments will be, we won't get caught.
No one will see it.
The important people who could actually catch us and judge us and punish us
Well, they're never going to see.
Well, that may be true.
It's not likely, but it may be true, but there is one person who will always see and that is God.
Now in verse 21, we see with her many persuasions, she entices him with her flattering lips.
She seduces him.
Suddenly he follows her as an ox goes to the slaughter.
So what we're learning here is that not only
Will the world try to convince you that there'll be no negative consequences to your sin?
But also the world has many, many other arguments to get you to sin, to get you to draw away from Christ and come to the world.
And if you listen long enough, you'll get caught.
Now let's go to the Lord in prayer and then we'll look at this passage.
Father, thank you for this opportunity.
And Lord, I give thanks unto you for all the children, the teenagers, young people, parents that may be listening to this little study.
Father, please, so many words we know so much, but oftentimes we don't apply it and we're not wise.
and we put ourselves in great danger.
Lord, I pray that you would use this text to instill, especially in the young people, the fear of the Lord, that they may, that they might increase in their reverence of you, in their hatred of sin, their fear of sin, their love of righteousness.
Father, this world that we live in is so dangerous.
I'm not praying because this is what you do before you speak.
I'm asking you, Lord, to please help these young people that you would answer my prayer.
Lord, I lifted up to you as real.
I desire, Lord, that this prayer be used
to bring about blessing in the life, Lord of the hero.
And Lord, help me now as I teach.
I'm very tired today.
So strengthen and give me the words to speak.
In Jesus' name, amen.
So we learned in our last study that the world will always tell you that
there won't be any consequences for the bad that you do.
Here, we see that the world is constantly arguing, constantly pulling at you, constantly tempting, constantly reasoning, constantly speaking in order to influence you, not for Christ, but for itself.
So it says here in verse 21, it says, with her many
persuasions.
So what does it say?
Well, let me let me put it this way.
Before we even get started, if you listen to anyone or anything long enough, they're going to have an influence on you.
My first pastor, and he's like a father to me, he's
He's an old man now.
And he used to always tell me, he goes, so here's sin.
And here's anyone, but even a believer.
And the Bible says, not only when we see sin, should we not go to it, but we should run away from it.
But people will go, well, I can touch it.
I can touch it.
And then when someone says, Hey, you're in danger, they go, no, no, I'm just touching it just for a moment every once in a while.
But then what happens?
The frequency increases and the length with which you touch this in increases.
And then if you keep doing that over and over again, pretty soon, what'll happen?
You won't just touch it.
You grab a hold of it.
You'll grab a hold of it.
And you say, well, yes, I'm grabbing a hold of it now, but I can always let go.
I can always let go.
But then one day when you're grabbing a hold of it, it grabs a hold of you.
And even when you want to let go, you cannot.
You know, when I was in seminary, I worked with street people and I lived with street people for a while.
And many of them were on the streets because of alcohol and drugs.
And it all started out with just harmless touching and then terrying too long, as the Bible says, don't terry over wine.
And then eventually they're, they're just trapped.
When I was in Peru, my first few years, I worked at a drug center with out in the desert with some pretty tough characters.
And almost in every case, the ruin of their life was they started with something and eventually that something grabbed a hold of them.
And many of them never broke free.
Some of them did, but by the grace of God.
And remember what the Bible says, don't ever, ever, ever tempt God.
So where does it all start?
I mean, honestly, where does it all start?
It starts here with many persuasions.
The world constantly coming at you.
The word not only means persuasion, it can also mean
instruction that the world is coming at you with all its reasoning, all its compelling arguments to convince you that you should walk away from Christ and come to the world.
And I'm telling you, this is not, um, maybe I'm telling you, if you listen long enough, you'll be captured by it.
You'll be
influenced by it.
And you know what?
When the influence starts, you don't even recognize it.
And a lot of people will be so passionate about certain things and then not even recognize that this is just them being influenced by others.
They have no knowledge of what they're talking about.
The power of these persuasions, the power of the voice of this world is beyond, well, we're not a match for it.
So the moment you start hearing something that is contrary to the Word of God, the moment you start hearing something that is contrary to your godly parents, get away from it.
Especially young person, if someone comes into your life and begins telling you things, you know what you need to do immediately?
You need to tell your parents, tell your parents what these people are telling you.
If it's an older person, especially, but even if it's someone your age and they start speaking to you things that you know are against scripture and you know are against your parents, then you need to tell your parents immediately.
Now, I want to tell you something, be aware of the gradual.
You know there's a story, but it's true.
It's about a frog.
A frog
can really acclimate to things.
For example, it goes kind of underground during the winter.
It's body temperature can adjust and all these things.
So I'm told that if you take a frog and you throw him in boiling water, he'll jump out, right?
Just boom, he senses the heat and he jumps out.
But if you put a frog in room temperature water, comfortable water, and then gradually, just little by little, turn up the heat.
His body will keep adjusting and unjusting and he'll stay there until he's actually boiling.
Do you see that?
It's the same way.
If the devil came to you as, you know, as this horrific, malignant, terrifying being, the moment you saw him, you'd run.
But that's not the way he appears.
He comes as something quite different.
And he doesn't begin.
He doesn't start out with telling you all kinds of false doctrine and lies and horrible things.
He starts out just chipping away little by little at what God said.
Did God really say that?
Is that what God meant?
And then it keeps going, as in the case with Eve, to outright denial.
God never said that.
Do you see?
He's constantly chipping away.
constantly beating you down, constantly trying to erode the truth of scripture in your life, the truth of your parents, your morality.
You know, there was a, you know, the Nazis, I guess if there's one thing everybody in the world is in agreement about is that the Nazis were bad and what they did was quite evil.
But their chief, um,
Guy for propaganda was a guy named of Joseph Gebels.
And you know what he said?
And it's true.
This is what he said.
I'm going to read it to you.
If you tell a lie big enough and keep repeating it, people will eventually come to believe it.
If you tell a lie big enough and you keep repeating it and repeating it and repeating it,
People will eventually come to believe it.
So you shouldn't walk into the world and say, I'm going to build a bridge with the world.
I'm going to dialogue with the world, you know, back and forth with the world.
Don't do that.
You shouldn't even do that when you're an old man like me.
Just plug your ears and walk away.
What better?
Run away.
Because when Paul tells Timothy to get away, he uses the word flea.
run for your life.
Okay?
So what do we see here?
It says with her many persuasions, not one, not two, not the same persuasion, but she's coming at him with everything she's got to convince him to do evil.
And then it says she entices him.
This is from a Hebrew word.
It means to turn someone aside.
to incline someone towards something and lead them astray.
So how does it work?
So imagine you're walking down the path of righteousness, the path that is marked out by scripture, your study of the scripture, your obedience to the word of God, your obedience to your parents.
And then all of a sudden a traveler comes right beside you, not a monstrous looking individual,
attractive, winsome, and they start talking to you and they start putting doubts in your head about the way you're walking.
And then eventually they get their arm around you, right?
And then as they're talking, they just lead you right off the path.
And every moment that they're talking, they're wearing you down.
They're breaking down your arguments.
They're chipping away at what you know to be true to the point where you get confused.
You follow them and eventually their convictions become your own.
Be very, very, very careful.
I've written here, the world will put sin and temptation in front of you constantly like putting a carrot in front of a mule.
Okay.
You know, I was raised, we raised quarter horses, a lot of horses, and you can go out there with a carrot, with an apple.
That horse will forget about everything.
I mean, he doesn't look to the left, to the right, to anything.
He's just looking at the apple, looking at the carrot.
It's the same way.
You become so focused on that carrot in front of you.
on that delight, that temptation that the world puts in front of you, that you don't realize you're being led into a trap, are led off a cliff.
You know, we do that.
And in some, in some states, you know, when you're deer hunting, you're allowed to put corn out.
So what's the advantage to that?
The deer comes walking through there and what does he see?
Corn.
He likes corn.
The problem is he forgets to be aware of the hunter.
Do you see that?
And as he's delighting himself, eating all that corn eventually ends up on somebody's table because he didn't pay attention to his surroundings.
The world will do that.
It'll put corn out in front of you.
Put a carrot, put an apple.
And you're paying attention to that.
You're not paying attention to the Word of God.
You're not remembering
what God has said and eventually you're led into a trap.
So we see here in verse 21, there are persuasions, there's enticement.
And then here's a biggie.
There's flattery, flattery.
We've already seen the world use this already in this chapter.
Um, literally it's not flattery, literally it's smooth lips or smooth talk.
What does that mean?
The world will tell you exactly what your flesh wants to hear.
You know, there are so many cases in classical literature, so many cases in probably everyone's life.
When somebody wants to deceive somebody, they don't offend them.
When somebody wants to deceive somebody, they flatter them.
They tell them everything they want to hear.
They win their confidence.
I suppose if a spider could talk, that's exactly what he would do to a fly.
He would tell the fly how, how intelligent you are, how beautiful you are, how special you are to me.
How I just want to hold you.
You see, but never tells the other part.
I want to hold you in order to eat you, to devour you.
to ruin you.
There's a type of fighting in which it's not just physicality, it's deception.
A lot of gangs use this in South America.
It's like a practiced way of fighting in that you're not only good with your fist and your feet, you're not only a good brawler,
are good on the ground and BJJ or no, no, no, it's, it's about getting your enemy to believe you, to trust you, to follow you into a trap.
The use of deception and warfare.
Well, that may be Satan's greatest tool because he's a liar.
He's the father of all lies.
And how does he murder?
Well, he doesn't.
walk around necessarily with a gun, does he?
He doesn't bring a tidal wave over a city every few days, does he?
What does he do?
He lies, he deceives, he entices, okay?
This is very important.
And he flatters, he flatters, he flatters.
Now, the world tells you exactly what your flesh wants to hear.
Now I've written something here about God, how he's different.
God tells you exactly what you need to hear.
He tells you the truth that will contradict your flesh every time.
Now think about that.
Satan hates you.
And so what does he do?
He tells you exactly what you want to hear in order to deceive you.
and destroy you.
Now look at God.
God loves you.
And so many times what he will tell you will contradict your flesh, contradict your desires, even make you angry.
Now let's move this one step over.
Your parents, if your parents, if you're like I was, I hope you're not, and your parents are like mine.
Much of what they said to me was a contradiction of everything I wanted to do.
Did they do that because they hated me?
No, they did that because they loved me.
You see, as a young person, you're much more foolish than you think you are.
And you're much more given to the fallen flesh than you understand.
And you're going to desire things and want things.
Not always.
But enough that are actually dangerous for you and your parents are going to recognize it and they're going to say no.
For example, what would happen if your parents just said, you know, you don't have to eat anything healthy at the table.
You can just eat ice cream all day long.
Most of you would do it.
But you see, they're giving you that hard food, that good food in order to make you strong.
And sometimes it contradicts your desires.
Okay.
So the world entices, it persuades, it flatters.
Now, there's one more word here.
It says, with her in verse 21, with her flattering lips, she seduces him.
Now, this same word, it's interesting, is used in Deuteronomy 2019 to describe the swinging of an axe at the trunk of a tree until it falls.
Have you ever cut down a tree with an axe?
I've cut down a lot of trees with axe.
I don't know if it's because my dad, when I was a kid, couldn't trust me with a chainsaw.
He just wanted me to get stronger.
But it is a big tree, you know, even just eight inches in diameter or 12 inches in diameter, not a large tree.
Unless that acts as extremely sharp and you're extremely strong, it takes a lot of wax in order to take that tree down.
Okay, you chip away, you chip away.
Have you ever seen a beaver?
Take down a tree.
Take him a little while.
Why?
He's just gnawing and gnawing and gnawing until finally that tree falls.
This is exactly what the world's going to do to you.
It's not necessarily going to come in like a bulldozer and just take you out all at once and ruin all your moral convictions or your faith in Christ.
That's not what it's going to do.
It's just going to chip away and chip away and chip away.
And we have a good, a really good illustration of this.
in Samson and Delilah, right?
Samson, I mean, if there ever was a bad dude, he's a bad dude.
I mean, he was something.
He's taken down by one woman.
I mean, he killed thousands of men.
He stood against entire armies all by himself, but he's taken down by one temptress.
And listen to what it says in Judges 16,
16 and 17.
It came about when she, as Delilah, pressed him daily with her words and urged him.
Do you see the emphasis here?
Pressing, urging, constantly going at him that his soul was annoyed to death.
So he told her all that was in his heart.
She just kept adding and kept adding and kept adding until he gave in.
and it ended up in the ruin of his life.
And in some ways, the ruin of his testimony.
And that's the way the world is going to come at you.
So just think about it.
You're in this fallen world, 16 hours a day, awake, at least most of you, people in the world, your interaction with them, TV, radio, internet,
Twitter, Instagram, entertainment, conversations, you just over here.
I mean, you're being bombarded.
And for the most part, it's not with regard to Christ.
It's not with regard to righteousness.
It's the very opposite.
And it's just constantly, constantly, constantly chipping away.
Now, let me say one other thing.
All right.
Man, I am in a few days, I'm going to be 64.
And I have been in the ministry for over 40 years.
Um, I read the Bible quite a bit.
I know that I can't listen over and over to these things.
I know that when I hear people speak contrary to Christ, I need to get out of there.
I know that if there's entertainment, I need to get out of there.
If it's contrary to Christ, why?
because little by little, it will start having an impact even on someone like me.
Now how much more?
If you're just a kid, maybe a brand new Christian, you can't even find the book of Philippians.
All right.
Do you see how you should be careful?
Look at me.
I'm looking at you the best I can.
You need to increase in the fear of sin and you need to increase in the fear of self and you need to increase in your fear or reverence for the Lord.
Let's pray.
Father, I pray.
Oh God, please work in their heart.
These children, these teenagers, parents,
It's a battlefield.
It's a war zone, Lord.
And it's so easy to be swept away.
Please, dear God, work in the heart of your people, save children and teenagers from the condemnation of sin and the power of it and the influence of it.
Lord, if there are young people that are in relationships that are dangerous, I pray that you would break them.
Break those relationships and create for them new relationships that promote love for Christ and righteousness.
Dear God, I ask all this in Jesus' name.
Amen.